#summary This is a quick guide for installing Ampache on windows.

= Introduction =

If you've never installed a web server before doing so can be a bit tricky, especially on Windows.  This guide is intended to make doing so a bit easier.  
<a href="http://www.google.com">Google</a>
Note: This is a living document and will be updated in areas where its been found to be lacking.

= Required Downloads (All Free)=
  # A Webserver: [http://www.apachefriends.org/en/xampp-windows.html#646 XAMPP Lite] (Full version will work too)
  # Latest Ampache: [http://ampache.org/download.php Ampache 3.5.1] (At the time of this guide this is the most recent version of Ampache)
  # Something to unzip Ampache: 7-zip [http://www.7-zip.org/]

= Details =

  # Download and install xampp.
  * xampp has a fairly decent installer to guide you through the process of installing a web server.
  * The installer will default to installing xmapplite to the *C:\* drive.  The resulting location of all the installed files would be *C:\xampplite\*.  You can change it to C:\Program Files if you like.   
   * NOTE: For the purposes of this tutorial we will use the default setting of C:\
  * Once the installer copies all the files it needs to your system it will bring up a command prompt to ask you a few questions.
   # Shortcuts
{{{
Should I add shortcuts to the startmenu/desktop? (y/n):
}}}
     This one is up to you.
   # If you installed to a directory other than C:
{{{
Current directory does not match configured directory.
I must relocate the XAMPP paths correctly.
Should I proceed? (y/x=exit setup): y
}}} 
     Enter: y
   # Portable XAMPP
{{{
Should I make a portable XAMPP without drive letters
NOTE: - You should use drive letters, if you want use services.
- With USB sticks you must not use drive letters.
Your choice? (y/n): n
}}}
     Enter: n
   # At this point it will go and do some work.  Hit enter until you see this
{{{
 1. start XAMPP Control Panel
 2. relocate XAMPP
    (current path: C:\Program Files\xampplite)
 3. disable HTTPS (SSL)
 4. disable Server Side Includes (SSI)
 5. enable IPv4 only (current: IPv4/6 (auto))

 x  Exit

 Please choose (1-5/x):
}}}
     Enter: 1 to bring up the control panel.  Also you can close the command window at this point.